The high-performance and low-footprint **distributed host monitoring daemon**, osqueryd, allows you to schedule queries to be executed across your entire infrastructure. The daemon takes care of aggregating the query results over time and generates logs which indicate state changes in your infrastructure. You can use this to maintain insight into the security, performance, configuration, and state of your entire infrastructure. osqueryd's logging can integrate into your internal log aggregation pipeline, regardless of your technology stack, via a robust plugin architecture.

The **interactive query console**, osqueryi, gives you a SQL interface to try out new queries and explore your operating system. With the power of a complete SQL language and dozens of useful tables built-in, osqueryi is an invaluable tool when performing incident response, diagnosing an systems operations problem, troubleshooting a performance issue, etc.

osquery is **cross platform**. Even though osquery takes advantage of very low-level operating system APIs, you can build and use osquery on Mac OS X, Ubuntu, Cent OS and other popular enterprise Linux distributions. This has the distinct advantage of allowing you to be able to use one platform for monitoring complex operating system state across your entire infrastructure. Monitor your corporate Mac OS X clients the same way you monitor your production Linux servers.

To make deploying osquery in your infrastructure as easy as possible, osquery comes with **native packages for all supported operating systems**. There is great tooling and documentation around creating packages so packaging and deploying your custom osquery tools can be just as easy too.

To assist with the rollout process, the osquery user guide has **detailed documentation on internal deployment**. osquery was built so that every environment specific aspect of the toolchain can be hot-swapped at run-time with custom plugins. Use these interfaces to deeply integrate osquery into your infrastructure if one of the **several existing plugins** don not suit your needs.

Additionally, osquery's codebase is made up of **high-performance, modular components with clearly documented public APIs**. These components can be easily strung together to create new, interesting applications and tools. Language bindings exist for many languages using a Thrift interface, so you can continue using comfortable and familiar technologies.
